---
papersize: letter
documentclass: extarticle
geometry: margin=1in
fontsize: 12pt
title: COMP 4020 Assignment 1
include-before:
- '`\newpage{}`{=latex}'
author: Mia Battad, 7880943
date: January 18, 2024
header-includes:
    - \usepackage{multicol}
    - \usepackage{gensymb}
    - \newcommand{\hideFromPandoc}[1]{#1}
    - \hideFromPandoc{
        \let\Begin\begin
        \let\End\end
      }
---

# Part A: Project Topic Brainstorming
Three potential topics are listed below, along with a brief description of their purposes and potential capabilities.

## Topic 1: Language Companion
This robot helps users learn and practice languages. It offers strategies to study vocabulary, grammar, and two-sided conversation, as well as body language during social interactions.

## Topic 2: Customer Service Robot
This robot is able to greet customers at a business or service. It can provide directions towards areas, sections, or objects, and answer customer inquiries.

## Topic 3: Service and Therapy Robot
This robot serves a similar purpose to a service or therapy animal and could accompany users in their homes or in public. It offers social and emotional support through conversation and can guide users through daily tasks.

# Part B: Preliminary Analysis

## Most Promising Candidate
The topic that most interests me is **Topic 1: Language Companion**. Language acquisition has a variety of use cases and, by extension, potential demographics---I can think of more use cases than for a Customer Service robot, and more demographics than for a Service and Therapy Robot. Furthermore, as somebody who has studied three foreign languages (with varying levels of success), I have firsthand experience in this domain. The breadth of use cases and my own past experience allows me to consider many possible issues and features that can address them.

## Preliminary Search

This problem relates to Robot-Assisted Language Learning (RALL), a sub-field of Human-Robot Interaction (HRI). Two published research papers on the topic are summarized below.

### Robot-Assisted Language Learning Increases Functional Connectivity in Children's Brain (2022)
This paper details an experiment in which young Japanese children use a NAO robot to learn French words.[^1] Although it doesn't focus on the specific interface of the robot, it shows that HRI has the potential to be a viable and effective solution for language learning because of how people identify with robots.

### Using social robots for language learning: are we there yet? (2023)
This paper is an overview of advancements in RALL and their various findings.[^2] In addition to exploring existing research on RALL in classroom settings, it discusses how robots used in RALL can have varying effectiveness for a given audience depending on form and degree of autonomy. Because RALL is mostly studied for young learners, we may consider in this project how to design a robot that is equally usable for different age groups.

[^1]: Alimardani, M., Duret, J. L. P., Jouen, A. -L., & Hiraki, K. (2022). Robot-Assisted Language Learning Increases Functional Connectivity in Children’s Brain. *Proceedings of the 2022 ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction*, 674–677. Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan: IEEE Press, doi:10.1109/HRI53351.2022.9889406.
[^2]: Huang, G., & Moore, R. K. (2023). Using social robots for language learning: are we there yet?. *Journal of China Computer-Assisted Language Learning*, 3(1), 208–230, doi:10.1515/jccall-2023-0013.

## Problem Description
The Language Companion will support people in learning and practicing foreign languages. It supplements traditional language-learning techniques by letting users apply what they learn with a conversation partner analogous to a native speakers. Users can use the Language Companion to practice pronouncing words, forming sentences, writing or reading characters, and participating in two-way conversation. The Language Companion behaves in a way fitting of cultural norms so that users understand how a conversation in their target language feels. This is particularly helpful when native speakers of the user's target language are inaccessible. For example, the target language may not have many native speakers, the language's native speakers may be concentrated in another part of the world, or the user may simply be too shy to practice with a native speaker before improving their skills.

The Language Companion will be used by a variety of language learners, including elementary to post-secondary students, businesspeople, members of diaspora communities, or travellers. It further affects educators, who may use it to supplement their teaching. Native speakers of a language will interact with people who have used the Language Companion to learn it, emphasizing the importance of including cultural social norms.

## Scenarios

### Scenario 1: Taylor and Lixin
Taylor and Lixin are a couple living in Vancouver, Canada. Lixin is originally from Guangzhou, China, and the couple is planning a trip there to see Lixin's family. However, Taylor doesn't speak any Mandarin, while Lixin's family doesn't speak any English---furthermore, Taylor is unfamiliar with Chinese culture, and worries that they'll come across as rude. They have asked Lixin to help tutor them, but Lixin often speaks too quickly, uses words beyond Taylor's skill level, and is unable to explain why they do or say certain things. In this situation, Taylor can benefit from using the Language Companion as a study partner. Taylor learns to differentiate syllables with different tones by listening to the Language Companion speak. As Taylor learns more, the Language Companion starts including slang and regional dialects in its conversation. It acts out common scenarios with Taylor, such as self-introductions. Throughout its use, the Language Companion uses facial expressions and physical gestures reflecting social norms in Chinese culture, and Taylor learns by its example.

### Scenario 2: Gabriel
Gabriel is a Filipino-American university student whose parents were born in Davao, Philippines. Gabriel never had the chance to learn their parents' language, and while Gabriel has tried to learn independently, they don't understand the difference between the terms "Filipino," "Tagalog," and "Davaoeño." When they try to speak with their parents in Tagalog, the online sources they've learned from don't match their parents' dialect. They feel disconnected from their heritage and want to learn their ancestral language to help with that. The Language Companion helps Gabriel see subtle differences in Filipino dialects by comparing vocabulary and accents from different regions, including Davao. Its example sentences and conversation topics relate directly to aspects of Filipino culture, such as history, lifestyles, and family. Although Gabriel's parents can become impatient that their Davaoeño isn't perfect, Gabriel can practice with the Language Companion, which offers positive feedback that promotes Gabriel's learning.

### Scenario 3: Francis
Francis is a project manager at a software company in Paris, France that has been approached about a new company opportunity in Bangalore, India. Although the company provides a training course for Francis to learn Kannada, the most common local language, they find the course lacking. It does not cover the complicated, technical vocabulary Francis will need to use with their team. They can only access the course resources digitally, whereas they would prefer having more flexible ways of practicing Kannada both during and outside of work hours. To help, Francis can customize the Language Companion. Francis creates new word banks using the specific vocabulary they need to practice, making the Language Companion's study techniques more applicable. Francis keeps the Language Companion in their home office, speaking Kannada with it while working remotely and around the house in different everyday situations. As Francis also needs to use Kannada in digital messaging apps, the Language Companion shows them how the Kannada script is written and read, correcting their spelling and showing them how each character is pronounced.

# Part C: Design Direction
The core features of the Language Companion include:
\begin{itemize}
  \item Speech recognition
  \item Reading text (written or digital)
  \item Displaying text and images
  \item Conversation
  \item Body language
  \item Customizable words or topics
\end{itemize}

We can consider different "modes" that the Language Companion has, each of which uses one or more features. For example, users can practice vocabulary words in isolation with a "flashcard mode" where the Language Companion helps the user associate vocabulary with images or definitions. For written communication, the Language Companion has a "writing mode" where it evaluates the user's spelling or handwriting. Listening comprehension exercises can use a "story mode" where the Language Companion reads aloud from a text source. A "conversation mode" lets the user speak with the Language Companion naturally.

There are many parts to language learning, and each is practiced differently. Consider language learning in classrooms, for example, where vocabulary, grammar, and reading comprehension use different exercises. Using a "mode-switching" design for the Language Companion means the user can intentionally practice the parts they feel weaker in, then apply their knowledge comprehensively in a two-way conversation.

This design requires a display monitor for text and pictures, as mentioned above. This, along with buttons for the mode-switching and customization interfaces, may be available through the Phidgets provided to us as part of the course. Depending on Vstone Sota's capabilities, this may extend to motion sensors, distance sensors, or keypads, each of which are Phidgets products that are either available or can be purchased online. We may also connect Sota to a personal smartphone or tablet displaying the interface on a touch screen.